.\"
.TH SMBEE 1 "June 13, 1999" "smbee, libsmb-1.0pre"
.SH NAME

\fBsmbee\fP \- A fast SMB browser

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBsmbee\fP [ \fI\-s browseServer\fP ] [ \fI\-u user\fP ] [ \fI\-B broadcast address\fP ] [ \fIurl\fP ]

.SH DESCRITPION
	
.br
\fBsmbee\fP is a small and fast SMB browser. It will start at URL "smb://" by default (see options below), but then you will be able to browse where you want.
.br
All the SMB URLs are built according to this scheme :
.br
[\fIsmb:\fP][\fI//\fP[\fIuser@\fP][\fIworkgroup/\fP][\fIhost\fP[\fI/share\fP[\fI/dir\fP[\fI/file\fP]]]]]


Runtime keys :
.br
	\fIUP & DOWN\fP : select new target
.br
	\fIRIGHT & LEFT\fP : both mark or unmark a file for download
.br
	\fIENTER\fP : open and list a directory, download current and marked files.
.br
	\fICTRL\-U\fP : change user (default : none=anonymous)
.br
	\fICTRL\-S\fP : change browse server (default : use local samba)
.br
	\fICTRL\-B\fP : change the network broadcast address (default : guess from IP)
.br
	\fICTRL\-Q, CTRL\-X, CTRL\-C, ESC\fP : Quit program
.br
	\fIother\fP : modify URL

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\-\fBs\fP \fIbrowseServer\fP
Specify a SMB browse server. By default smbee will use the local samba, but you can use any SMB server as browser. Only the SMB "masters" will have a list of all workgroups, so this option is useful if your host isn't the workgroup master or if you do not run samba.
With this option and if you compiled libsmb with \-\-enable\-dnsquery, you can reach workgroups through routers, provided all the machines on the other side have the same NetBIOS and DNS names.
Note : This option uses the NetBIOS name of the server.
.TP
\-\fBu\fP \fIuser\fP
Specify a user name, used when the servers are in "user mode". This will be overrided by the user field of the URL if any.
.TP
\-\fBB\fP \fIbroadcast address\fP
Specify a broadcast address. Default is to guess it from the IP class, but this doesn't work for sub-divided networks.
.sp

.SH ENVIRONEMENT

.br
SMB_USER, SMB_BROWSE_SERVER & SMB_BROADCAST_ADDRESS environement variables are used if set.
.br
They have the same effect as the corresponding command\-line options.
The command line takes precedence though.


.SH AUTHOR

.br
\fBsmbee\fP was written in a hurry by Nicolas Brodu, \fIbrodu@iie.cnam.fr\fP, to test the \fBlibsmb\fP library.
.br
You can get the most recent version of \fBsmbee\fP and the lib at my home page, \fIhttp://www\-eleves.iie.cnam.fr/~brodu/\fP
.br
This program is released under the GNU Public License.
.br
